In the last lecture you learn how to make the post selectable.
But that of course has nothing to do with axioms or with HTP requests.
It was Manila re-act a nice practice.
But now let's move on and let's actually send HGP request.
Once we got a valid ID now which lifecycle hook should we use here.
Let's have a look if we have a look at the lifecycle hook for updating components.
And we are of course speaking about the update lifecycle hook because the computer is there right from
the start.
But data should be fetched once we receive a new prop ID.
So that is what we're looking for then component that update is a good place for causing side effects.
It also has one issue though.
If we update the state in there we update the component again and we therefore enter it infinite loop.
That is something we'll have to watch out for.
But first of all let's make the HTP request I'll head over to full post.
And first of all we need to import x year X years from the X years package then in full post in the
component we can implement component did update and make the HTP request so they can use X years get
in now do you or else has to target one single post by the ID if we have a look at our Dammy backend.
There is a route for that get and then post slash the ID so we can copy that you r l and now make a
request to that you are Adell though of course will not hard code one in there but instead use plus
this props ID to take the ID we got on the props.
Of course we also don't want to send this request if ID is null.
So we don't want to do this.
And if the idea is invalid.
So I would check if does prop's idea is treated as true which means it is a valid ID.
And then we can actually send this request with x' and to get Meffert to debt.
You are l Now if I do reps at that then block your I can output debt with console log response and we
should see a response as soon as we clicked on one element.
So if I click on aliment here we see the response.
Now this works fine here.
However of course you want to output it.
So we should also manage some state in here and maybe we have like a loaded post in this element in
this component which is initially set to NULL then year we can output loaded post title and loaded post
content in our post.
J.S. X content and in your where I locked the response I wont log it anymore.
Instead what I want to do here is.
I want to call this set state and there set sets loaded post tooter response data which will be the
post-edit we fetched from the back end and an hour J as X code of course we should X-ists loaded post
on this state like that now if that if we go to our application and reload it and I click on a post
we actually receive an error that we can't read title of.
Now this makes a lot of sense because here in our GSX code for full post we immediately X-ists this
state loaded post title and we do it as soon as we get a valid property.
Now we get a valid property before we have a valid loaded post because as you learned fetching data
is asynchronous.
So first we get the ID and then a little bit later we get the loaded post but we reran the dorm immediately
after we got the idea.
We can simply fix this by adding a check for the validity of the ID with this prop's ideas we already
have it and say that in this case post should actually be a paragraph still but maybe a paragraph where
we simply say loading because we selected a post but the data isn't there yet.
And then in the bottom if statement we check if state loaded post has been set because initially it's
now or it would be treated as false.
But as soon as we got one this will return to true or resolve to true.
And hence we will render this GSX code.
And now if I saved this and I click on a post we see loading for a fraction of a second and then we
see the post.
We also got an issue here though.
If we open the network tab you'll see that we're resending after request after request after request.
We can simply reload the page to make sure this stops.
But why are we seeing this we are seeing these infinite requests because we're updating the state from
within component that update and this creates an infinite loop because when we call said state the component
will be updated and component did update will execute again.
So we have to make sure that we only send this HTP request and hence update the state if we actually
loaded a new post.
So how do we do that.
We can enter if check inside the outer If check here and there we can show if we already have loaded
post if that is true.
So that is a first indicator that we did already load up posts.
Then of course we all want to make sure that Ford days loaded post the ID is not the same ID as we just
got by our props because that would mean the ID for which we want to fetch new data is the ID we already
have loaded so we don't need to make a HTP request in this case.
So hearable check if we have a loaded post.
And then if this state loaded post ID is an equal to prop's ID.
So if we essentially try to get data for a new post which is fine in which case I want to make DHC request
in all our cases.
I won't go ahead and make it because then we're trying to fetch data for requests request.
We already have for a post we already have to ship this prompts of course.
Now let's see if I load that page and I click on a post.
Well we never get the post data.
So somehow our check here is failing.
Well we have to amend it a little bit because initially it will of course fail because loaded post is
null initially.
So this would only succeed if we had at least one post loaded.
So I will instead check if we don't have this state loaded post or if we do have it but if it then also
has a different ID than the ID we plan on loading.
So we go ahead and make the request even if we have no loaded post or if we do have one but the IDs
are different.
Whoops.
This should be loaded post though.
So now if we save this and we go back to the application on the network tab click a post it loads and
it doesn't start sending infinity requests.
And it can still switch but we only get one request per switch and that is exactly what we want.
So now we got a way of safely fetching data in component did update and still a completed update is
the right place because we want to fetch data whenever we receive new prompts.